chapter 44 and he commanded the steward
of his house saying fill the men's sacks
with food as much as they can carry and
put every man's money in his sacks mouth
and put my cup the silver cup in the
sacks mouth of the youngest and his corn
money and he did according to the word
that Joseph had spoken as soon as the
morning was light the men were sent away
they and their asses and when they were
gone out of the city and not yet far off
Joseph said unto his steward up follow
after the men and when thou dost
overtake them say unto them wherefore
have ye rewarded evil for good is not
this it in which my lord drinketh then
whereby indeed he divine if he have done
evil in so doing and he overtook them
and he spake unto them these same words
and they said unto Him
wherefore saith my lord these words God
forbid that thy servants should do
according to this thing behold the money
which we found in our sacks mouths
we brought again unto the out of the
land of Canaan how then should we steal
out of thy Lords how silver or gold with
whomsoever of thy servants it be found
both let him die and we also will be my
Lords bondman and he said now also let
it be according unto your words he with
whom at his found shall be my servant
and ye shall be blameless then they
speedily took down every man his sack to
the ground and opened every man his sack
and he searched and began at the eldest
and left at the youngest and the cup was
found in Benjamin sack then they rent
their clothes and laid it every man his
ass and returned to the city and Judah
and his brethren came to Joseph's house
for he was yet there and they fell
before him on the ground and Joseph said
unto them what deed is this that ye have
done what do you not that such a man as
I can certainly divine and Judah said
what shall we say unto my lord what
shall we speak or how shall we clear
ourselves God hath found out the
iniquity of thy servants behold we are
my Lords servants both we and he also
with whom the cup is found and he said
God forbid that I should do so but the
man in whose hand the cup is found he
shall be my servant
and as for you get you up in peace unto
your father then Judah came near unto
Him and said o my lord let thy servant I
pray thee speak a word in my Lord's ears
and let not thine anger burn against thy
servant for thou art even as Pharaoh my
Lord asked his servant saying have ye a
father or a brother and we said unto my
lord we have a father an old man and a
child of his old age a little one and
his brother is dead and he alone is left
of his mother and his father loveth him
and now said stun to thy servants bring
him down unto me that I may set my eyes
upon him and we said unto my lord the
lad cannot leave his father for if he
should leave his father his father would
die and thou said stun to thy servants
except your youngest brother come down
with you ye shall see my face no more
and it came to pass when we came up unto
thy servant my father we told him the
words of my Lord and our father said go
again and buy us a little food and we
said we cannot go down if our youngest
brother be with us then will we go down
for we may not see the man's face except
our youngest brother be with us and thy
servant my father said unto us
II know that my wife bear me two sons
then the one went out from me and I said
surely he is torn in pieces and I saw
him not since and if he take this also
from me and mischief befall him he shall
bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave
now therefore when I come to thy servant
my father and the lad be not with us
seeing that his life is bound up in the
lads life it shall come to pass when he
seeth that the lad is not with us that
he will die and thy servant shall bring
down the gray hairs of thy servant our
Father was sorrow to the grave Paul a
servant became surety for the light unto
my father saying if I bring him not unto
thee then I shall bear the blame to my
father for ever
now therefore I pray thee let thy
servant abide instead of the lad a
bondman to my lord and let the light go
up with his brethren for how shall I go
up to my father and the lad be not with
me lest peradventure I see the evil that
shall come on my father